today on slo-mo we've broken out of the
studio somewhere far more exotic to
bring you something quite special
[Music]
so today we've joined Angela Griffiths
who owns Greyfriars veterinary
rehabilitation referrals so what are we
are going to see today you're going to
see a number of different dogs swimming
and you're going to see how they move in
the water we use the buoyancy of the
water because it unweight them and it
takes throwing up their joints and makes
it much more comfortable for the need to
move but it also means that they have to
work hard so it's like going to the gym
and working out against weights that
kind of thing so yeah supposed to grow
muscle and replace their core spray and
what we got going on behind us here and
we've got a large heated swimming pool
because it's heated it has to make Delta
move more comfortably increases the
blood supply to their peripheral areas
their limbs which aids with reducing
pain and also that helps them move more
easily so we think of doggy paddle that
we passed and dual wheel ends yeah I
mean are there any different kinds of
puddle of you sort of turn they all have
their own particular style and you'll
see if the thoughts moving quite
differently and the difference between
swimming and on land is when they're
swimming they're really using their
front end very strongly they're reaching
forward and they're feeling themselves
through the walls are they using their
chest muscles and they use their hind
legs as fertile as possible unless we
give them some challenge or some work to
do well first up we got Wooster yeah so
fingers crossed eaters with your forms
yes
[Music]
[Applause]
so we're currently joined by a new scam
called Brewster Hoover is rather
speedier than the golden retrievers and
it's been interesting watching him
because he seems to move quite fast
almost like a sprinter and he seems to
be doing that rotary gallop so right
right left left left in a big sort of
circle which is what they do when
they're really going very fast on the
ground so just the same in the water
[Music]
[Applause]
it's been quite tricky today trying to
film these guys just because they're
having such a great time you don't
really know where they're gonna go
they've not got a kind of pre destined
path that they're gonna follow so it's
great seein and have fun but it can be a
bit hairy trying to catch it so with us
now we've got a ridge back with barley
bridge backs have been designed patented
for being big muscly dogs and dogs
normally when they're walking around in
the lands use their hind legs there's
big old flanks to run really quickly we
saw that in the greyhounds but in the
water they sort of they're back to front
really no need to drive themselves
forward with their front limbs so
Barney's really stretching out just the
same way we do
[Music]
the next up we've got Lizzy who's a
spaniel and it seems she actually just
loves jumping in the water
[Music]
[Applause]